# Lyfter: Ride-Hailing Application
Developers: Chirag Rana, Michael Schaming, Steve Yu, Quinn Mccray, and Pauleene Adirea Jordan
# Problem Statement/Goal
You've been asked by the newly formed Rutgers Health to create a patient-doctor appointment system. Create a system that categorizes illness into N categories and doctor medical specialization into M categories (where N > M). Ideally, every patient will get a doctor with the right speciality but that could result in long waiting times. You will need to make necessary assumptions of the number of patients, the number of doctors, acceptable waiting times (say based upon illness type) etc. but no patient must remain unseen for more than 14 days under any conditions.
# Introduction and Approach:
In order to create this application, the approach that was taken was using Visual Studio and Visual Basic software to write code and test out different test cases. Our application was designed for all different types of Rutgers Students who need to book an appointment with a medical professional on campus. In order to develop this, the application needed to take in different inputs with the button created on the interface. The application would then present the appropriate medical professional(s) for the selected reasons. The patient would then be allowed to select a time and date for an appointment that requires no longer than a 14-day wait. We have made the necessary assumptions for the number of students that need appointments, the kinds of doctors more demanded by students, and the number of appointment times needed to support the desired number of requests.
# Evaluation of Requirements, Design, and Estimate Time:
The requirements of iHealthRU: Patient-Doctor Appointment System have been met. Our application consists of 5 different kinds of doctors (psychiatrists, primary care, internists, consult physician, and a pharmacist), and 18 potential reasons for visit. We have met the requirement that we have N specialties > M illness/reason for the visit. Based on specialty, we have assumed that the most common reason for a doctor’s visit would be to treat mental health and general sickness. So, we decided that having multiple doctors in these specialties was required so no student had to wait more than 14 days for an appointment. Among a total of 9 doctors that work for Rutgers Health, we have an availability of 330 appointments available to students each week. We have assumed that no more than 660 students will request an appointment in a span of 2 weeks. To design an implement these requirements into our application, we needed to to construct a database that had a sufficient amount of appointments times with the appropriate medical professional. We had draft up the various illnesses/reasons for visit with the medical profession and use that inputed data to provide a list of the appropriate professionals and their available times in less than 14 days. We had to provide more appointments for internal medicine doctors that treat physical illnesses (cold, cough, fever, etc.) than primary care doctors that provide consultations ore treat patients with families (as there are not that many students that have children on campus). In order to develop this project, we needed to split up tasks in order to deliver the final product in the 4 week deadline. In this project, we had to ensure that multiple tasks that could be completed by different team members simultaneously were constantly occurring because this ensured that the team was all contributing to different parts of the project. For example, when the user login was being developed by those who had better programming skills, the database could be developed and could then be easily integrated when the user login was fully functioning. We had to split this project up into 2 sprints, each of which ranged about 2 weeks.
# How to Use Test Out Application from Github:
In order to run the application (for testing purposes), the zip folder must be downloaded and the SoftwareEngineering_MajorProect.sln file should be opened in Microsoft’s Visual Studio with the .NET framework installed. There is an important distinction between Visual Studio and Visual Studio Code as this program is developed using a language not supported by VSCode. If, when the program is launched, all the text in the Form1.vb file is highlighted red, then the .NET framework installed on the computer might be outdated. Fortunately, Visual Studio gives a popup message on the solution explorer with a link to install the updated framework.
